1.Why a World School?
Karl Marx may have been wrong in his forecast about the Capitalist World but his theory of Dialectical Process is an all time hit. The last decade has seen the world changing like never before. We may like it or not but we are a closer Global community today. Happenings in remotest parts of the world affect us in numerous ways. Technology enables us to employ people living in distant continents. BPO, KPO and facebook have revolutionized our lives. Schools have also undergone a sea change during this period. Moradabad has the distinction of being a leading center for exports for over a century now. The city is a perfect example of export led growth and development. However the children of Moradabad cannot forever bask in past glory. If they want to compete with their counterparts world over, in qualitative and quantitative terms, they must get a strong educational foundation. Hence the philanthropist group 'C.L. Gupta Exports' decided to give to the children of Moradabad a world class school. We present before you, a pioneer endeavor in schooling – CLGWS – The C.L.Gupta World School. The infrastructure has set such high standards that students who spend 14 years of their life here, would be propelled to demand and maintain the same standards of comfort, efficiency, health, hygiene and cleanliness at workplace and at home. The teacher-student ratio of 1:10 is the best in India with only 20-25 students per class. The emphasis is on differential teaching, catering to distinct learning stryles in a class and doing away completely with the need for any outside coaching.

2.What does school faces problems?
What to teach i.e. what knowledge and skills to develop, and How to teach i.e. the pedogogy. The school is affiliated to Central Board of Secondary Education, New Delhi. At CLGWS we follow CBSE curriculum from K-12 as base and build on to deliver IGCSE offered by Cambridge International Examination as the final output. This answers WHAT TO TEACH More important is HOW TO TEACH. This is what determines whether we are producing lifelong learners or not. The differential teaching strategies based on multiple intelligence are followed in the school to take care of the diverse learning styles of students in a class.

3.What is the school's address?

School Address:
C L Gupta World School, Ram Ganga Vihar, Phase-II
Moradabad – 244001. (U.P.)

Phone No. : 0591-2477900
Fax: 0591-2477922
E-mail: info@clgworldschool.com
Visiting Hours: 9:30 am To 11:30 am
Location: Close to the banks of river Ramganga, the School is 6km from the Moradabad Railway Station.

4. What is the contact Information?

Ram Ganga Vihar, Phase-II,
Moradabad - 244001 (UP).
Ph: +91-591-2477900
Email: info@clgworldschool.com

5. Why us?

We understand the Students
Trained Teachers and Faculties
World Class Infrastructure
Better Academic & Cultural Activities

6. Why are we different?

This generation of digital natives has caught educators flat-footed. Thus we as educators have to enhance and equip ourselves according to the demand.

CLGWS beyond making online learning systems available have truly leveraged student’s digital preferences for learning. Students are helped and guided to actively identifying the uses of the content to learn skills.

We facilitate our students to understand the syllabus content, to learn a skill by actively practicing it, under observation. We help them to core, value or see worth in a subject or skill by guiding them to actively identify how it will benefit them in the future and to actively articulate this belief in benefit to another person.

We have moved from assessment of learning to assessment for learning. We use the best available resources and methods to help develop successful individuals and life-long learners equipped to contribute to and benefit from the domestic and international world of the third Millennium.

7.How are the transport facilities ?

At CLGWS, we recognize the requirement of providing conveyance to children staying far away from school. The school owns a fleet of air-conditioned (with heating for winters) buses. School buses are also equipped with modern facilities. Each bus has a trained driver and a Maid for complete safety and security of the children. Our fleet of eco-friendly buses goes on to prove that we are equally concerned about the conveyance facility and amenity provided to our kids and their safety thereon.

8.How is the Infrastructure?

World Class Campus

The campus is a marvel of modern architecture surrounded by green farm lands nestled adjacent to the river Ganges. The ambience boasts of impressive structures, manicured lawns and waste harvesting systems that make the campus eco-friendly. A hydro-pneumatically operated water system and noiseless power generators ensure uninterrupted water & power supply.

Reinforcements and CCTV’s are positioned at all entrances & exits primarily to complement the non-invasive security system. A fire alarm and fire fighting system add to the safety of the Campus.

9. Are there any sports activities?

The modern state d’art SWIMMING POOL, a fully equipped MODERN GYMNASIUM, EXTENSIVE PLAYGROUND, BASKETBALL and TENNIS COURT are some of the open spaces our students use for TEAM AND INDIVIDUAL activities.

10.Are there any special sports activity?

SPECIAL COURSES offered in Rock climbing and Rifle shooting and Trekking. Trained Physical Education teachers and coaches are engaged actively in rearing students into the sports culture this institution envisages.

11.What is our learning moto?
“ IF I CANNOT LEARN THE WAY YOU TEACH THEN TEACH ME THE WAY I CAN LEARN “

12. ECE classes?

ECE classes from Pre-nursery to prep have their course content on latest research based learning material designed by  NURTURE . The Early Childhood Education at CLGWS is activity based catering to early learning skills. The NURTURE Curriculum has been developed in the most integrated manner so that the toddlers beautifully steer out as self controlled children, able to learn, recognize and speak while picking up useful social habits . The early lessons for ECE is trusted into caring hands of the Mother Teachers. As quality Educators the ECE team of teachers help the little ones to be on track every bit where learning is fun.

13. Primary schools

Course content based on advanced methodology at the primary school level for a strong foundation for life is the motive behind primary years teaching. Children at this stage need to have a strong base of all four skills of language, mathematics  and  science which are the constant focus of teachers. Besides life skills and value education are also important part of study and practice for primary students of CLGWS Children’s participation in activities makes learning interesting and learning by doing gives them a steady concentration ability. Games, indoor and outdoor, stage activities and art education are integrated with academic curriculum.

14. Adventure camp

The School organizes Yearly NIGHT OUT CAMP in school premises in order to provide a well integrated and educationally perfect combination of learning by doing. Such camps help as a great boost up for the students who dismiss physical activity as a meaningless exercise. Fear grooves originate in our mind and eat deep into heart and soul till they find a let-out point. To overcome this one must stretch out beyond the limited and defined space. Adventure Camps are an endeavor towards achieving this goal.

The Adventure Camps in CLGWS are conducted under strict supervision of experts, coaches, physical education teachers and camp managers. The School caters to the needs of camping students and every detail is carefully monitored for the safety of the participants and for a smooth flow.

15. Health and Safety Facilities

16.Dining
We ensure that the meals offered are organic, healthy, hygienic and sumptuous. A dietician plans nutritious balanced meals. The meal whether Indian,  Continental & Chinese is pure vegetarian prepared in an ultra modern mechanized kitchen. R.O. drinking water doubly ensures good health. The mess staff is  suitably attired and trained to handle food in a hygienic manner.

17.Infirmary
The school’s infirmary is managed by a qualified medical & nursing staff. Regular checkups and individual medical cards are maintained. A pediatrician along with a nurse takes care of the health, hygiene and the sanitation aspects of the campus. Periodical eye, ENT, dental & skin check ups are organized.

18.Security
CLGWS is surrounded by a high security wall with concertina/electrified fencing. There are CCTV cameras to monitor all entrances, exits and activities in the campus without interfering with the privacy of the students. In addition well trained male & female security guards patrol the area 24*7. A fire fighting system with highly sensitive alarms further strengthens the security so no one can enter the premises without proper authorization which is further verified prior to entry. All persons are thoroughly screened and checked.

19.Health & safety Points

The school campus is equipped with central air conditioning system to provide comfortable and clean environment to school students. The Reverse Osmosis water filter plant of 500LPH supplies pure water on every floor. 
Every floor has clean wash rooms with a ratio of 1:30 for both boys and girls which are higher than standards.
 Indoor swimming pool is equipped with on-line filtration plant. Qualified and trained staff to monitor water condition. 
School campus is covered with state of art video surveillance system having over 120 CCTV cameras monitoring and recording every activity.
 Fire alarm and fire hydrant system are installed as per concerned authorities guide lines. 
Country's renowned security service provides 24*7 watch & guard by well trained security personnel to the entire campus.

20.Library Facilities
Students make use of the well equipped school library for reference and research. The projects done in various subjects as a part of CCE is done mostly with the help of the magazines, periodicals and books available in the Library. Students also can do E-Research under the supervision of teachers in the library as computers with internet facility are provided in the Library. 

21. what is the academic curriculum for middle school?
The Middle Years study works up for the final finishing school year VI, VII, and VIII form serious shared and self study time Field activity, Social service and participation in activities from mature angles initiate middle school children of CLGWS into higher preparatory. Based on CBSE curriculum, the middle school years start CBSE course as the foundation level for higher classes to lead up to the final years of Board Examination.

22.What is the academic curriculum of senior school?

Various techniques and strategies are applied to groom students for the CBSE classes IX, X, XI and XII Examination. For the purpose of fostering core competences in learners, the curriculum encompasses seven major learning areas, which are: Languages, Humanities, Mathematics, Sciences, Commerce, Health and Physical Education.

Beyond the required core and elective courses, optional courses relevant to specific curriculum areas may also be made available in consideration of changing individual, societal and global requirements and demands.

23. What is our teaching strategy?

Apart from text books, courses adopted for class I to X have web support which are taught with the help of smart boards provided in each class. There is provision for e-learning any time. Student participation is essential in all our strategies of teaching. They participate in role play, group discussions, debates & declamation, task oriented on Socratic method besides additional independent reading activity. Class Bulletin Boards are regular group assignments for which best groups are awarded certificates of proficiency. Theme based peer work as vocabulary charts, drawings and illustrations are prepared by the students for class boards, besides maps, models and book reviews. Use of smart boards, slides and educational films. Class Quiz is a powerful motivation for students.

 
24.what is our examination procedure?

Continuous Cumulative Evaluation is strictly followed. Students take four formative tests and two summative Examinations during an academic year. A number of cross curriculum activities are organized to test the best potential.

Formative Assessment
The four formative tests are conducted as per CBSE norms. These are strategically interspersed with regular classes. Students are prepared for these tests with the help of mock tests, skill based oral and listening tests, practical tests and tests incorporating field activity. Weightage of marks is added for II summative assessment marks.

Summative Assessment
Two summative assessment based on defined content areas are conducted as written examinations.

System of Grading

The School has also introduced Grading System. Marks are converted into grades before disclosing to the students. The differences in achievement level diffused releasing the worry factor.

Remedials

Remedial lessons are prepared after identifying learners’ difficulty areas. Such lessons are suited to the individual difficulty level/ requirements. A term-wise records of the remedials are maintained in the School. Subject teachers maintain checklists.

Support post evaluation

Post test, scripts are reviewed by each student independently and their queries solved by the subject teachers.

Prep

The school Prep hour is a teacher supervised class - Students are helped by subject teachers to study and do their homework which is a practice for students to  complete their assignment in school so that they devote sufficient time for self studies at home. Necessary guidance is provided in the School individually as per student's need.

25. Documents required at the time of admission?


    Birth Certificate
    Passing Certificate/Score of previous class
    Transfer Certificate of the previous school
    7 passport size photographs
    SC/ST/OBC Certificate ( If Applicable)

26. what are rules and regulations?
Conduct & Discipline
The school lays emphasis on self-discipline, for without discipline it is not possible to achieve excellence in any field.  It is our aim to inculcate in each student a sense of good manners and behavior and  a sense of co-operation and respect for elders. However, keeping the interests of the entire student body in mind, it will be necessary to punish cases of anti-social behavior in extreme or repeated cases of indiscipline, the school may, for the well being of the entire community, be forced to expel a student, In such case(s) the decision of the Principal will be final and binding.

Fee rules
Fees should  be deposited in IDBI bank , Opp. Dharamkanta, Near Majholi Chowk , Moradabad 
From  Monday to Friday  according to the Fee-Bill issued.
1st Instalment  is to be deposited by 10th of April and at the time of admission.
IInd  Installment is to be deposited by 1st of October.

A late fine of Rs100/- will be charged after 10th April for 1st Instalment and after 30th Sept for 2nd Instalment for a period of one  month beyond which a re-admission fee of Rs15000/-   will be charged.
It is important that parents send the school’s copy of bank transfer  to our Accounts department.

27. How are our alumni?
Moradabad has the distinction of being a leading center for exports since over a century now. The city is a perfect example of export led growth and development. However the children of Moradabad cannot forever bask in past glory. If they want to compete with their counter-parts world over, in qualitative and quantitative terms, they must get a strong educational foundation.


	
